add plugin page (#463)
aiidalab/aiidalab-qe: docs/source/development/plugin.rst

                "parameters": {
                    "SYSTEM": {"ecutwfc": 30.0, "ecutrho": 240.0, "tot_charge": 0.0}
                },
                "pseudos": {"Si": "eaef3352-2b0e-4205-b404-e6565a88aec8"},
            },
            "pseudo_family": "SSSP/1.2/PBEsol/efficiency",
            "kpoints_distance": 0.5,
        },
        "bands": {"kpath_2d": "hexagonal"},
        "pdos": {...},
        "hello_world": {...},
        "plugin_1": {...},
    }

One needs to decide which parameters are needed for the workchain, and how to use them. For example, the ``HelloWorldWorkChain`` needs the ``name`` parameter, which is defined in the ``Setting`` panel. The ``get_builder`` function will return a ``builder`` for the ``HelloWorldWorkChain``. The ``builder`` will be used to submit the workchain.

.. code-block:: python

    def get_builder(codes, structure, parameters):
        """Get the workchain specific parameters
        """
        parameters = parameters.get("hello_world", {})
        builder = HelloWorldWorkChain.get_builder_from_protocol(
                    codes=codes,
                    structure=structure,
                    parameters=parameters,

>                 )

Reviewer: This seems not properly indented as well.

        return builder

Then register the workchain and builder in the `workchain_and_builder` dict, so that the QeApp can load them.

.. code-block:: python

    # register the workchain and builder
    workchain_and_builder = {
        "workchain": HelloWorldWorkChain,
        "get_builder": get_builder,
        }

Entry point
-----------------------
Finally, one needs to register the entry point of the plugin. Here is the entry point for this plugin.

.. code-block:: python

    # this is the entry point of the plugin
    hello_world ={

>     "outline": Outline,
>     "setting": Setting,
>     "workchain": workchain_and_builder,
>     "result": Result,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "outline": Outline,
        "setting": Setting,
        "workchain": workchain_and_builder,
        "result": Result,
```

.. _develop:create-plugin:

************************
Create your plugin
************************

A QuantumESPRESSO app plugin will typically register new panels (setting, result), and workchain to extend the app's functionality.

Your First Plugin
================================

> Here is the simplest plugin to print the formula of the input structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example plugin to print the formula of the input structure:
```

Outline
-----------------------

> A  :class:`~aiidalab_qe.common.panel.Outline` will add an item in the properties section of the workflow panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A  :class:`~aiidalab_qe.common.panel.Outline` is a panel widget that can add an item in the properties section of the workflow panel.
```

> For this example, we'll add the ``Hello World`` item, as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we add the ``Structure render`` item, as shown below.
```
If the example plugin has a specific functionality, I would expect the name to explain it. 
If you adopt this change, remember to update the figure as well.

.. image:: ../_static/images/plugin_outline.png
    :align: center

> The **Outline** will be shown as a checkbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The newly added **Outline** panel is a checkbox.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from aiidalab_qe.common.panel import OutlinePanel

    class Outline(OutlinePanel):

>         title = "Hello World"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        title = "Structure Render"
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Setting
-----------------------

> A  :class:`~aiidalab_qe.common.panel.Panel` will register a new panel in the configuration step, e.g. the ``Hello world`` panel.

Reviewer: A bit confusing to me. Does a panel register a new panel? Can you be more specific?

Author: I changed it to `A setting Panel widget will register a new panel in the configuration step`. 
In the feature, we may create a `SettingPanel` class for the setting.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. image:: ../_static/images/plugin_setting.png

> In this class, one can add widgets (e.g. Float, Int) to the GUI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this class, one can add widgets to the GUI.
```

The values of these widgets will be used in the WorkChain.

> One needs to override the ``get_panel_value`` method to tell QuantumESPRESSO app how to use the values from the widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One needs to override the ``get_panel_value`` method to tell the app how to use the values from the widgets.
```

> One also need to override the ``set_panel_value`` method to tell QuantumESPRESSO app how to reload the panel values from previous calculation, and the ``reset`` method to reset the panel to the default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The developer is supposed to override the ``set_panel_value`` method to tell the app how to reload the panel values from the previous calculation, and the ``reset`` method to reset the panel to the default values.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from aiidalab_qe.common.panel import Panel

    class Setting(Panel):
        """"""
        title = "Hello world"

        def __init__(self, **kwargs):
            self.name = ipw.Text(value="", description="Your name:")
            self.children = [self.name]
            super().__init__(**kwargs)

        def get_panel_value(self):
            """Get the panel value"""
            return {"name": Str(self.name.value)}

        def set_panel_value(self, input_dict):
            """Set the panel value"""
            self.name.value = input_dict.get("name", 1)

        def reset(self):
            """Reset the panel"""
            self.name.value = ""

Result
-----------------------

> A  :class:`~aiidalab_qe.common.panel.ResultPanel` will register a new panel in the Results Step, e.g., the ``Hello world`` panel.

Reviewer: Same here, maybe "register" -> "render"

Author: I prefer to use `register`.

> A  :class:`~aiidalab_qe.common.panel.ResultPanel` will register a new panel in the Results Step, e.g., the ``Hello world`` panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A  :class:`~aiidalab_qe.common.panel.ResultPanel` will render a new panel in the results step of the corresponding panel.
```

.. image:: ../_static/images/plugin_result.png

> In this class, one needs to specific the `workchain_labels` to tell QuantumESPRESSO app which workchain the panel is for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this class, the plugin developer needs to specify the `workchain_labels` to tell the app which workchain the panel associated.
```

> Then, one needs to implement the ``_update_view`` method to tell QuantumESPRESSO app how to show the results of the workchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the ``_update_view`` method requires to be overridden to tell the app how to show the results of the workchain.
```

The output of the workchain will be stored in ``self.outputs.hello_world``.
For example, the ``name`` and ``structure`` are the outputs of the ``HelloWorldWorkChain``.

.. code-block:: python

    from aiidalab_qe.common.panel import ResultPanel

    class Result(ResultPanel):

>         title = "Hello world"

Reviewer: In my opinion, "hello world" example is used very specifically for programming language, I guess even aiida plugin didn't use a "hello world" example. Here more specific name could be better. Please consider to change it.

Reviewer 2: should we use the "MultiplyAddWorkChain" from AiiDA tutorial? https://aiida.readthedocs.io/projects/aiida-core/en/latest/intro/tutorial.html . This is just a detail, but maybe we can make the very same example.

            structure=structure,
            parameters=parameters,
        )
        return builder

Then register the workchain and builder in the `workchain_and_builder` dict, so that the QuantumESPRESSO app can load them.

.. code-block:: python

    # register the workchain and builder
    workchain_and_builder = {
        "workchain": HelloWorldWorkChain,
        "get_builder": get_builder,
    }

Entry point
-----------------------
Finally, one needs to register the entry point of the plugin. Here is the entry point for this plugin.

.. code-block:: python

    # this is the entry point of the plugin
    hello_world ={
        "outline": Outline,
        "setting": Setting,
        "workchain": workchain_and_builder,
        "result": Result,
    }

Install the plugin
-----------------------
To install the plugin, you can creating a new package or adding it to the `aiidalab_qe.plugins` folder.
One needs to add the path of ``hello_world`` to ``entry_points`` inside the setup file.

.. code-block:: python

    entry_points={
            "aiidalab_qe.properties": [
                "hello_world = aiidalab_qe_hello_world:hello_world",
            ],
        },

> **Bringing It All Together**, You can find all the code above in this github repository: https://github.com/superstar54/aiidalab-qe-hello-world

Reviewer: Please create a specific repo for it.

Author: I created one in `aiidalab`. https://github.com/aiidalab/aiidalab-qe-plugin-demos

> **Bringing It All Together**, You can find all the code above in this github repository: https://github.com/superstar54/aiidalab-qe-hello-world

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Bringing It All Together**, You can find all the code above in this github repository: https://github.com/aiidalab/aiidalab-qe-hello-world-demo
```

> Your second plugin

Reviewer: I don't think naming it "second plugin" is good. The name should be more specific, maybe "A result plugin that can combine the results and render", with put under the section "Advanced usage".

```
Advanced usage
-----------------
```

This is set by the `workchain_labels` attribute.

.. code-block:: python

    class Result(ResultPanel):
        title = "Electronic Structure"
        workchain_labels = ["bands", "pdos"]

Here is the entry point for this plugin.

.. code-block:: python

    from .result import Result

    electronic_structure = {
        "result": Result,
    }

Your third plugin
================================
The plugin API also allows the user to add a new structure importer and editor:

- add structure `importer` specific for particular structures, e.g. surface,  adsorbate.
- add a new `editor` to edit a structure for the plugin, e.g. edit tags, and cut surface.

Here is the example for such plugin.

.. code-block:: python

    from .structure_importer import StructureImporter
    from .structure_editor import StructureEditor

    my_plugin ={
        "importer": StructureImporter,
        "editor": StructureEditor,
    }

Further Reading
================================
QuantumESPRESSO app comes with built-in plugins, which can be found in the ``aiidalab_qe.plugins`` folder.

> You can also use them as templates to create your own plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use them as a start point to create your own plugins.
```

        overrides = {
            "pw": parameters["advanced"],
        }
        builder = EOSWorkChain.get_builder_from_protocol(
                    pw_code=pw_code,
                    structure=structure,
                    protocol=protocol,
                    electronic_type=ElectronicType(parameters["workchain"]  ["electronic_type"]),
                    spin_type=SpinType(parameters["workchain"]["spin_type"]),
                    initial_magnetic_moments=parameters["advanced"] ["initial_magnetic_moments"],
                    parameters=parameters["eos"],
                    overrides=overrides,
                    **kwargs,
                )
        return builder

Then add the workchain and builder into the `workchain_and_builder` dict, so that the QuantumESPRESSO app can load them.

.. code-block:: python

    # register the workchain and builder
    workchain_and_builder = {
        "workchain": EOSWorkChain,
        "get_builder": get_builder,
    }

Entry point
-----------------------
Finally, you need to register the entry point of the plugin.
Here is the entry point for this plugin.

.. code-block:: python

    # this is the entry point of the plugin

>     eos ={
>     "outline": EosOutline,
>     "setting": Setting,
>     "workchain": workchain_and_builder,
>     "result": Result,
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    eos ={
        "outline": EosOutline,
        "setting": Setting,
        "workchain": workchain_and_builder,
        "result": Result,
    }
```

Install the plugin
-----------------------
To install the plugin, you can creating a new package or adding it to the `aiidalab_qe.plugins` folder.
You need to add the path of ``eos`` to ``entry_points`` inside the setup file.

.. code-block:: python

>     entry_points={
>             "aiidalab_qe.properties": [
>                 "eos = aiidalab_qe_plugin_demos.eos:eos",
>             ],
>         },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    entry_points={
        "aiidalab_qe.properties": [
            "eos = aiidalab_qe_plugin_demos.eos:eos",
        ],
    },
```

The pupose of the `electronic_structure` plugin is to show the results of the `bands`` and `pdos`` plugins together.
In order to do this, it set add both ``pdos`` and ``bands`` to the ``workchain_labels``.

.. code-block:: python

    class Result(ResultPanel):
        title = "Electronic Structure"
        workchain_labels = ["bands", "pdos"]

Here is the entry point for the `electronic_structure` plugin.

.. code-block:: python

    from .result import Result

    electronic_structure = {
        "result": Result,
    }

Structure importer and editor
------------------------------
The app also allows the user to add new panels in the structure selection step:

- structure ``importer``: specific for particular structures, e.g. surface,  adsorbate.
- structure ``editor``: to edit a structure for the plugin, e.g. edit tags, and cut surface.

You can find an example plugin, ``surface``, in the `aiidalab-qe-plugin-demos`_ repository.
It adds a new structure importer and editor to generate the surface structure.
Here is the entry point for the `surface` plugin.

.. code-block:: python

    from .importer import SurfaceImporter
    from .editor import SurfaceEditor

>     surface ={
>     "importer": SurfaceImporter,
>     "editor": SurfaceEditor,
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    surface ={
        "importer": SurfaceImporter,
        "editor": SurfaceEditor,
    }
```

        return builder

    workchain_and_builder = {
        "workchain": HelloWorldWorkChain,
        "get_builder": get_builder,

>         }

Reviewer: This is quite an essential specification of the workchain definition. If I understand correctly, the key name and the value type can not be changed.  So I would recommend to add a validator to the function who use this value and raise proper exception if the user passes an invalid dictionary.

Author: Yes, I opened issue #503 for this.
